# checkpoint 1




This module  randomly allocate space to a defined set of rooms
that can hold a given number of people.

Checkpoint1 module uses the `Space class` to generate and allocate rooms randomly.
	
	Space (Number of People, Room_Name, Number_of_Rooms)

#### The Space class takes three optional params

	
	Number_of_people =  maximum number a room can take.
	Room_Name 		 =  The Name you want to allocate the room e.g. Office, Living etc
	Number_of_Rooms  =  Number of rooms you want your building to have. 
	

#### To create Rooms:

a. Instatiate the class with defaults parameters.
	
	roomspacs = Space()
	

This will create an Object with 1 space per room and will load rooms from the `room.txt` file located 
in the data folder (`data/room.txt`)

b. Pass the required parameters e.g.

	
	roomspacs = Space(3, 'mountain', 2)
	


This will create an object with 2 rooms prefixed with the Room_Param e.g `'Mountain 1'` and `'mountain 2'` as the room Name

#### Functions

* ***allocate_room()***
	* This function allocates a person to a room.
	* It return a list 
	 * `[room name, Name of Occupant]`
	* if rooms are full it returns 
	 * `[-1, error message]`
* #### save_list()
	* This function saves the list of room allocation to a file.
	* You can use the `.path` variable to find the path of the saved file.

* #### print_allocation()
	* Returns a summary of rooms and its occupants

* #### print_status()
	* Returns number of empty space and summary on each room according to 
	maximum number of occupants, occupied spots and free spaces available within the room
	 * `[empty_spaces, status]`

* #### get_from_file()
	* This function reads from a file and converts the lines into a list items.
	 * Returns a list

* #### get_room_occupants(room_name)
	- This function gets the occupants allocated to a specified room. 

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Room Allocation

1. Room Allocation can be done manually by calling the `room_allocate()` function

 	`roomspacs.room_allocate('John Smith')`

  This will randomly chose a vacant room and allocate the name 

2. Rooms can also be allocated from a file by evoking the `get_from_file()` function
	

	 details = roomspacs.get_from_file(r"allocation.txt")
	  for names in details:
	 		roomspacs.room_allocate(details[0])


Nb: files should have fields separated by space or tabs

---------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
# Dojo  Allocat

Allocation.py Module

This module is a program created using the checkpoint1 module.
The program allocates Living and Offices spaces to staff 
and Fellows.
Fellows and staff can be allocated office.
only Fellows can be allocated Living space.
Offices can handle a max number of 6 people.
Living Space can Handle a max of 4 people.

To run this program :
1. Run the the allocation module in the app folder 	`app/allocation.py`
 		`python allocation.py`

 This module creates two instance from the `Space()` Class
 * office
 * Living

 

		office = Space(6)
		living = Space(4,'Living', 10)

 NB : office reads room names from a file `rooms.txt`

 living work space is generated by inputing the parameters

# Menu Options and functionality

`allocation.py` starts with a menu of task you can perform .
 		
From the menu chose a number to run a task 
Choose:

* `1 :To print room allocation`
 * This option enables you to view all the rooms and thier occupant
  * Type `1`  to view a list of all Living space and thier occupant.
   * Type `2`  to view a list of all Living space and thier occupant.
   * Type `3`  to  go back to main menu.

* `2 :To allocate room`
 * This gives you the option to insert Occupants from afile or manually enter thier names
  * Type `1` to allocate Living space
   * Type `2` to allocate both Living and Office space
   * Type `3` to allocate  Office space
   * Type `0` to exit
   
   The program will give a list of the rooms each individual is allocated to.
   In case the rooms are full a message will be printed notifying you that all
   rooms are full. A list of unallocated people will be generated.

* `3:To print room Occupants` 
 * This allows you to insert a room name and displays the occupant	
  * Type `1` to view occupants of a Living space
   * Type `2` to view occupants of an office space
   * Type `0` to exit 

* Insert name of room when prompted e.g. `Living 5`

	 * Once the room is chosen and Occupants found an editing menu that allows you to `change name` or `delete` an occupant will be activated
	 * Enter number of the person you wish to edit from the list
	   * Type `1`  to change name 
	   * Type `2`  to delete name from list
	   * Type `0`  to exit

* `4 : To print room status`
 * This option Prints the number of empty rooms and the number of occupants per room
    * Type `1` to view status of  Living spaces
    * Type `2` to view status of  Office spaces
    * Type `3` to view status of both rooms
    * Type `0` to exit 

* `0: To exit the Program`

 

### Testing 

Run `test/checkpoint1.py` to test the module
			
